[monitor-azure] Update tutorial to use native integration (#803)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/observability/monitor-azure.asciidoc

You'll learn how to:

- Create an {es} resource in the Azure portal.

> - Ingest logs using the native integration and view those logs in Kibana.

Reviewer: We should be explicit and call this `Azure platform logs`

Author: Thank you for the review Osman. I am a bit confused. Can you confirm that the following is your suggestion:

"Ingest Azure platform logs using the native integration and view those logs in Kibana."

Reviewer: Correct. The reason is because just saying "logs" is too generic since there are lots of different kinds of logs throughout the Azure platform.

- Ingest logs and metrics from your virtual machines and view those logs and
metrics in Kibana.
- Ingest other metrics (such as billing) using the
{metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-module-azure.html[{metricbeat} Azure module] and
view those metrics in {kib}.

[discrete]
[[azure-step-one]]
=== Step 1: Create an {es} resource in the Azure portal

Microsoft Azure allows you to find, deploy, and manage {es} from
within the Azure portal.
The Microsoft Azure portal integration makes it faster and easier for you to
experience the value of Elastic in your Azure environment.
Behind the scenes, this process will provision a marketplace subscription with
Elastic Cloud.

[discrete]
==== Create an {es} resource

. Log in to the https://portal.azure.com/[Azure portal].
+
[NOTE]
====
Ensure your Azure account is configured with *Owner* access on the subscription
in which you want to deploy {es}. You can read more about Azure
subscriptions in the https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cost-management-billing/manage/add-change-subscription-administrator#assign-a-subscription-administrator[Microsoft Azure documentation].
====

. Search and click on *{es}*.
+

> image:monitor-azure-search-elasticsearch.png[Search and click on {es}]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[role="screenshot"]
image:monitor-azure-search-elasticsearch.png[Search and click on {es}]
```

. Click on *Create*.

. Fill in the *Subscription*, the *Resource group*, and the *Resource name*.
Select a region and click on *Review + create*.
+

> image:monitor-azure-create-elastic-resource.png[Create Elastic resource]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[role="screenshot"]
image:monitor-azure-create-elastic-resource.png[Create Elastic resource]
```

+
[NOTE]
====
*Logs & metrics* will be discussed later.
====

> . Click on *Create* to create the {es} cluster.

Reviewer: Shouldn't use `cluster`. Rather `resource` or `deployment`.

. After your deployment is complete, click on *Go to resource*.
Here you can see and configure your deployment details.
Click on *{kib}* to access the cluster.
+
image:monitor-azure-elastic-deployment.png[Elastic resource]

. Select your Azure account to follow through with single sign-on directly
into Elastic.

. Click on *Observability* to see if there is any data available.
There should be no data yet, but you will ingest logs next.
+

> image:monitor-azure-kibana-observability-page-empty.png[{kib} observability

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[role="screenshot"]
image:monitor-azure-kibana-observability-page-empty.png[{kib} observability
```

page (no data)]

[discrete]
[[azure-step-two]]
=== Step 2: Ingest logs using the native integration

It is very easy to ingest Azure subscription and resource logs into Elastic
using the Microsoft Azure native integration.

. Go back to the Elasticsearch resource page in Azure and click on
*Ingest logs and metrics from Azure Services*.
+
image:monitor-azure-elastic-click-ingest-logs.png[Click on Ingest logs and
metrics from Azure Services]

. Check both checkboxes and click *Save*.
+

> image:monitor-azure-elastic-config-logs-metrics.png[Elastic configure logs and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[role="screenshot"]
image:monitor-azure-elastic-config-logs-metrics.png[Elastic configure logs and
```

====
+
[NOTE]
====
Native metrics collection is not fully supported yet and will be discussed
later.
====

. Go back to {kib} and click on *Observability* at the breadcrumbs until you
see some data.
It might take a few minutes before you see some data.
+
image:monitor-azure-kibana-observability-page-data.png[{kib} observability page
(with data)]
 
. Click *View in app* to access the Logs app and analyze all your subscription
and resource logs.
+
image:monitor-azure-kibana-logs-app.png[{kib} Logs app]

[discrete]
[[azure-step-three]]
=== Step 3: Ingest logs and metrics from your virtual machines.

. Go to your Elastic resource and click on *Virtual machines*.
+
image:monitor-azure-elastic-deployment.png[Elastic resource]

. Select the VMs that you want to collect logs and metrics from, click on
*Install Extension*, and click *OK*.
+
image:monitor-azure-elastic-vms.png[Select VMs to collect logs and metrics from]

. Wait until it is installed and sending data (click on *Refresh* if the list
does not update).
Then, click on *Logs* to see the VMs logs in the Logs app.
+
image:monitor-azure-kibana-vms-logs.png[VMs logs in the Logs app]
+

> And click on *Metrics* to see the VMs metrics dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To see the VM metrics dashboard, click *Metrics*.
```

+
image:monitor-azure-kibana-vms-metrics.png[VMs metrics dashboard]
+
[NOTE]
====

> Both logs and metrics will be filtered by the VM's name that you clicked on.
> Delete the filter to view the data for all the monitored VMs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both logs and metrics are filtered by the VM name that you selected.
To view the data for all the monitored VMs, delete the filter.
```

====

[discrete]
[[azure-step-four]]
=== Step 4: Ingest other Azure metrics using the {metricbeat} Azure module

> // {metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-module-azure.html[{metricbeat} Azure module] and view those metrics in {kib}.

Reviewer 2: Should this be removed?

access to your subscription.

[discrete]
==== Install and configure {metricbeat}

> To properly configure {metricbeat} you will need the Elasticsearch cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure {metricbeat} you need the {es} cluster
```

details.

. Go to the Elasticsearch resource page and click on *Manage changes in
Elastic Cloud*.
+

> image:monitor-azure-elastic-deployment.png[Elastic resource]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[role="screenshot"]
image:monitor-azure-elastic-deployment.png[Elastic resource]
```

> . Copy the *Cloud ID* and keep it safe as you will use it later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Copy the *Cloud ID* and keep it safe. You will use it later.
```

+

> image:monitor-azure-kibana-deployment.png[Elastic Cloud deployment]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[role="screenshot"]
image:monitor-azure-kibana-deployment.png[Elastic Cloud deployment]
```

> . Click on *Security* and then on *Reset password*. Confirm, copy the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *Security* and then click *Reset password*. Confirm, and copy the
```

> password, and keep it safe as you will use it later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
password. Keep it safe as you will use it later.
```

+
image:monitor-azure-kibana-security.png[Elastic Cloud security]

> You can run the {metricbeat} on any machine. This {tutorial} uses a small

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can run {metricbeat} on any machine. This {tutorial} uses a small
```

<2> Collects metrics every 24 hours. The period for `billing` metricset
should be 24h or multiples of 24h.

. To check if {metricbeat} can collect data, test the input by running the
following command:
+
[source,bash]
----
./metricbeat test modules azure
----
+
{metricbeat} will print `billing` metrics to the terminal, if the setup is
correct.
+
[NOTE]
====
If it returns a timeout error, try again. The `test modules` timeout is short.
====

. When the input and output are ready, start {metricbeat} to collect the data.
+
[source,bash]
----
./metricbeat -e
----

. Finally, log into {kib} and open the *[{metricbeat} Azure] Billing overview*

> dashboard. (Keep in mind it collects data every 24h.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dashboard. Keep in mind it collects data every 24 hours.
```
